# Hey!!!

This is the code for the new CSCL site. It took a lot of work (probably more than it should have) to get this up and running while hiding some sensitive info lol. Feel free to report bugs, request features, or help out with development here! If you are curious about anything, open an issue or ask me on Discord. (i probably won't know tho lol)

# How to use this to experiment with the site

Firstly, do NOT use this guide as a way to set up your own pointercrate list. I am not a very good programmer, I don't even know Rust besides things i've picked up on while working on this site, which isn't much. If you would like to create and host your own Pointercrate website, refer to the [official Pointercrate repo readme](https://github.com/stadust/pointercrate). If you need any help with following that guide, ask me or join the [Pointercrate Central discord](https://discord.gg/sQewUEB).

To begin, start by downloading a .zip of this repo (or clone it with github desktop). Next, download [rustup](https://rustup.rs), Shuttle (open command prompt and type `cargo binstall cargo-shuttle`) as well as [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org) (and Pgadmin 4). In Pgadmin 4, you need to create a new role and database. You must make the role before the database. To make a role, right click on Login/Group Roles and create a Login/Group role. Name it "pointercratetest", and in the Definition tab make the password "asdf" (the security of this password won't matter since you're hosting this database locally, meaning only you can access it). Next, in the Privileges tab toggle the "Can login?" and "Superuser?" settings on and press Save.
Next, right click "Databases" on the left and create a new one. Name it "pointercrate" and set the owner to the "pointercratetest" role you just created and press save. Remember that as long as Pgadmin 4 is open and the "pointercrate" databse on the left is yellow (not grey), the local database is running on from your computer. This must be the case while you're doing anything on the site.

Next, we need to apply the database schema Pointercrate uses. You can think of a schema as the "files and folders" the site stores its data in. Next, because i'm really dumb and didn't research how to manage databases, the files that tell the database how to construct itself are backed up in a separate folder, the ones in /migrations will not work (all the code is commented out). To fix this, open the folder, go to /pointercrate-example/samples/migrations , and move all the files in that folder to the other  /migrations folder in the root directory, and replace all files if prompted. Next, open the command line and type `cargo install sqlx-cli`. This installs sqlx, a program/library to manage databases in your code (and command lines). Once it's installed, open the command prompt/shell and navigate to the folder you downloaded this repository to via "cd". The command line usually drops you in your user folder, so to if the folder is on your Desktop, for example, type `cd desktop/ClicksyncChallengeList`. If you renamed the folder change "ClicksyncChallengeList" to whatever the folder is named. Next, run `cargo sqlx migrate run`. This should automatically apply the schema the database needs.

The last thing to do is actually run the site. To do this, type `cargo shuttle run` and wait for all the libraries to install and compile. At the end, it should give you a link (probably https://127.0.0.1:8001 ) to access the site in your browser!

# Next steps

If you need to be able to add data to the site, you need to give yourself administrator permissions. To do this, create a pointercrate account if you haven't already (user area -> register), go into pgadmin 4, right click on the "pointercrate" database and click "PSQL Tool". Then paste in `UPDATE members SET permissions = '0100000000001000'::BIT(16) WHERE member_id = 1;` and press enter, then refresh the site. You should be able to see all moderator tabs in the user area!

if you know what you're doing, i would love some help with development! i wrote most of the above text like a month ago, and i've since gotten """"""""better""""""" at coding in general, but still lol. thank you!
